Examining memory:

You can examine the contents of memory using the `x/<n><u><f> <address>` parameterized command. In this format `<u>` is
the unit size to display, `<f>` is the format to display it in, and `<n>` is the number of elements to display. Valid
unit sizes are `b` (1 byte), `h` (2 bytes), `w` (4 bytes), and `g` (8 bytes). Valid formats are `d` (decimal), `x`
(hexadecimal), `s` (string) and `i` (instruction). The address can be specified using a register name, symbol name, or
absolute address. Additionally, you can supply mathematical expressions when specifying the address.

For example, `x/8i $rip` will print the next 8 instructions from the current instruction pointer. `x/16i main` will
print the first 16 instructions of main. You can also use `disassemble main`, or `disas main` for short, to print all of
the instructions of main. Alternatively, `x/16gx $rsp` will print the first 16 values on the stack. `x/gx $rbp-0x32`
will print the local variable stored there on the stack.

--------------------------------------------------

Using DISPLAY to always repeat the same command after breaking:

There are a number of ways to move forward in the program's execution. You can use the `stepi <n>` command, or `si <n>`
for short, in order to step forward one instruction. You can use the `nexti <n>` command, or `ni <n>` for short, in
order to step forward one instruction, while stepping over any function calls. The `<n>` parameter is optional, but
allows you to perform multiple steps at once. You can use the `finish` command in order to finish the currently
executing function. You can use the `break *<address>` parameterized command in order to set a breakpoint at the
specified-address. You have already used the `continue` command, which will continue execution until the program hits a
breakpoint.

While stepping through a program, you may find it useful to have some values displayed to you at all times. There are
multiple ways to do this. The simplest way is to use the `display/<n><u><f>` parameterized command, which follows
exactly the same format as the `x/<n><u><f>` parameterized command. For example, `display/8i $rip` will always show you
the next 8 instructions. On the other hand, `display/4gx $rsp` will always show you the first 4 values on the stack.
Another option is to use the `layout regs` command. This will put gdb into its TUI mode and show you the contents of all
of the registers, as well as nearby instructions.

--------------------------------------------------

GDB scripting

While using gdb interactively as we've done with the past levels is incredibly powerful, another powerful tool is gdb
scripting. By scripting gdb, you can very quickly create a custom-tailored program analysis tool. If you know how to
interact with gdb, you already know how to write a gdb script--the syntax is exactly the same. You can write your
commands to some file, for example `x.gdb`, and then launch gdb using the flag `-x <PATH_TO_SCRIPT>`. This file will
execute all of the gdb commands after gdb launches. Alternatively, you can execute individual commands with `-ex
'<COMMAND>'`. You can pass multiple commands with multiple `-ex` arguments. Finally, you can have some commands be
always executed for any gdb session by putting them in `~/.gdbinit`. You probably want to put `set disassembly-flavor
intel` in there.

Within gdb scripting, a very powerful construct is breakpoint commands. Consider the following gdb script:

  start
  break *main+42
  commands
    x/gx $rbp-0x32
    continue
  end
  continue

In this case, whenever we hit the instruction at `main+42`, we will output a particular local variable and then continue
execution.

Now consider a similar, but slightly more advanced script using some commands you haven't yet seen:

  start
  break *main+42
  commands
    silent
    set $local_variable = *(unsigned long long*)($rbp-0x32)
    printf "Current value: %llx\n", $local_variable
    continue
  end
  continue

--------------------------------------------------
GDB Scripting 2 ADVANCED

  As it turns out, gdb has FULL control over the target process. Not only can you analyze the program's state, but you can
also modify it. While gdb probably isn't the best tool for doing long term maintenance on a program, sometimes it can be
useful to quickly modify the behavior of your target process in order to more easily analyze it.

You can modify the state of your target program with the `set` command. For example, you can use `set $rdi = 0` to zero
out $rdi. You can use `set *((uint64_t *) $rsp) = 0x1234` to set the first value on the stack to 0x1234. You can use
`set *((uint16_t *) 0x31337000) = 0x1337` to set 2 bytes at 0x31337000 to 0x1337.

Suppose your target is some networked application which reads from some socket on fd 42. Maybe it would be easier for
the purposes of your analysis if the target instead read from stdin. You could achieve something like that with the
following gdb script:

  start
  catch syscall read
  commands
    silent
    if ($rdi == 42)
      set $rdi = 0
    end
    continue
  end
  continue

This example gdb script demonstrates how you can automatically break on system calls, and how you can use conditions
within your commands to conditionally perform gdb commands.
